title/
Art Exhibitions
/title

Floating Columns, Rhode Island School of Design, 1999
-----, Cedar Creek Gallery, Durham, NC 2000
In the Bardo, SUNY-Stony Brook, 2001
-----, CUNY Graduate Center, 2001
Bodhisattva Fractal World, Johns Hopkins University, 2002
-----, Dartmouth College, 2003
Works in Fiber, Paper, and Proust, Harvard University, 2005

sub/
In the Bardo: From "Come as You Are" (Unpublished, 1999)
/sub

A few months ago, getting a checkup, I mentioned to my oncologist an academic conference on death and dying, and remarked that as far as I could tell from the program, I was the only sick person involved in it. He said, You know, it is a nice philosophical question at this point, in exactly what sense you can be said to be sick. He meant his comment to be cheering, and it actually was--I’m feeling very well, and I liked his acknowledging that.

At the same time, what is harder to explain is the sense of recognition that comes, as Fields put it, with being able to see and say, Ah, this is where I am in this bardo, the one of dying. Fields also noted how others, such as the healthy, who live in different bardos, move perhaps at different speeds, perceive, think, feel perhaps at different frequencies. To say that there seem to be distinctive psychological and spiritual tasks to accomplish in the bardo of dying, for anyone lucky enough to be able to focus and be present to them, is only another way of saying that there are special freedoms to be claimed here: freedoms both of meaning, relation, and memory, yet also from them.

sub/
Bodhisattva Fractal World: Artist Statement 
/sub

This textile show explores the contemplative space generated by the thousand-year-old sculptural images of Kuan-Yin, the bodhisattva of compassion in Chinese Buddhism. Also known as Avalokiteshvara in Sanskrit and as Kannon In Japanese, Kuan-Yin, like other bodhisattvas, has a complex ontological standing: among others, as a future or past Buddha, and as an enlightened being who has vowed to forego Nirvana until all other beings have become enlightened. In popular Chinese devotion--not only among Buddhists--Kuan-Yin is still occupied daily in protecting beings and dispensing good things.

On many people, the Kuan-Yin sculpture of the late T'ang and Sung (around the turn of the last millennium) exerts a powerful influence. The period was also a transitional one in human understandings of Kuan-Yin: up to about the eighth century, the bodhisattva was usually portrayed as a man, while after about the twelfth century, Kuan-Yin in China was generally seen and known in female form. The magnetic Kuan-Yins of the intervening centuries are often much harder to classify in terms of gender. My own thought and hope is that, even in the expression of a strong sensuality, many of these regal and loved divinities may not have been shaped or perceived through the eyes of gender at all.

One of the reasons Kuan-Yin became so popular in China is thought to have been the bodhisattva's responsiveness to certain currents in Taoist thought and iconography. The pieces in "Bodhisattva Fractal World" come out of an aesthetic, what the Japanese call wabi-sabi, that similarly resonates with the Tao. The near-aleatory effects of suminagashi (ink floated on water) and the fractal dimension-bending of shibori (bound resist dyeing), like the subtly unfolding haiku of Zen monks nearing the end of their lives, suggest many connections between contemporary understandings of chaos and complexity, on the one hand, and on the other, a group of ancient East Asian embodiments of wisdom and compassion.

sub/
Works in Fiber, Paper, and Proust: Artist Statement
/sub

The pieces in this show emerge from a decades-long engagement with Marcel Proust's novel, <i>A la recherche du temps perdu,</i> but they are not meant either to illustrate the book or to evoke its time, place, or atmospheres. The show's title reflects my interest in using Proust's language and thought as a medium, one with texture and materiality comparable to other artistic media, that can be manipulated through various processes to show new aspects. But if these are works "in" Proust in the same sense that they're "in" fiber or paper, they also reflect the transformative potential of a prolonged immersion in someone else's mental world, a way of being "in Proust." I am especially interested in the dailiness of a mysticism that doesn't rely on the esoteric or occult, but on simple material metamorphoses as they are emulsified with language and meaning.